---
tags: [Symfony2, assetic, bootstrap, less, mac]
---

h1. Symfony2, Assetic, Twitter bootstrap and less on Mac

Wanna use the new "Twitter bootstrap css framework":http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/ on Symfony2? Follow this:

To compile less files, we need to install @node js@ and @less@ module.

If you don't know "Brew":http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/ you really should:

bc.. Xavier@MacBook:~$ brew info node
node 0.6.10
http://nodejs.org/
Not installed

Homebrew has NOT installed npm. We recommend the following method of
installation:
    curl http://npmjs.org/install.sh | sh

bc. brew install node

p. And check @node -v@:

bc. xavier@MacBook:~$ node -v
v0.6.10

Node less module via npm installer:

bc. curl http://npmjs.org/install.sh | sh

or

bc. cd ~/source
git clone https://github.com/isaacs/npm.git
cd npm
make
make install

Again check @npm@ command answer:

bc.. xavier@MacBook:~/source/npm[master]$ npm

Usage: npm <command>

...

p. Now, we ask @npm@ to install less node module:

bc. npm install -g less

Check @npm list -g@:

bc. xavier@MacBook:~/source/npm[master]$ npm list -g
/usr/local/lib
├── less@1.2.1
├─┬ npm@1.1.0-3
...

Now get back to our Symfony2 project.

For mine, I had *Twitter boostrap* as vendor (via @deps@ file) and symlinked what I need to the
@Resource/public@ folder of my bundle.

However we need to setup assetic's less filter in our app:

bc. #in app/config/config.yml
assetic:
    debug:          %kernel.debug%
    use_controller: false
    bundles:        ['MyBundle']
    filters:
        cssrewrite: ~
        less:
            node:       /usr/local/bin/node
            node_paths: [/usr/local/lib/node, /usr/local/lib/node_modules]

Now update your twig layout:

bc. {% raw %}
{% stylesheets
    '@XavierMyBundle/Resources/public/less/bootstrap.less'
    filter='less'
    output='css/main.css'
%}
<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ asset_url }}">
{% endstylesheets %}
{% endraw %}

and refresh your page!

PS: If your have an error on less compilation related to @sys@ and @util@
module, update your assetic version.
