---
title: Uxbridge Ice Classic 110km populaire with Randonneurs Ontario
quote: This year, I focus on cycling. And what best than joining the locale randonneuring group? Here is a report of my first populaire ride.
tags: [randonneuring]
image:
    url: /assets/images/uxbridge-ice-classic.jpg
---

This year, I focus on cycling. And what best than joining the locale randonneuring group? Here is a report of my first populaire ride.

The course is called "Uxbridge Ice Classic 110km populaire":http://randonneursontario.ca/routes/gmap400.html?scale=auto&path=torroutes&track=Uxbridge_Ice_Classic_110.gpx. I discovered Uxbridge "last fall":/2014/09/26/bikepacking-the-trans-canada-trail-from-uxbridge-to-belleville-ontario/ as the head of the trans canada trail, and I was curious to go back there, winter bearly past.

I was also the occasion to do my first long ride with _Orange Mecanique_, and test some gear:

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="4" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 4px;"> <a href="https://instagram.com/p/1EWYbrtg_G/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_top">Before the ride... #biking #cycling #randonneuring #machomandisc #allcity</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A photo posted by Xavier Briand (@xavierbriand) on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2015-04-04T21:23:27+00:00">Apr 4, 2015 at 2:23pm PDT</time></p></div></blockquote>

The start of the ride would be north of Toronto, so I decided to ride the 20km to the start which would bring the ride close to a century.

Stephen, the Toronto chapter VP asked me to keep track of the participants, as he wasn't riding with us today. After a short pause at the Tim Hortons (I'll discover that Tim Hortons is the randonneur's favorite spot), there were the 5 of us that would do the ride today: Dave, Henk, Jack, Brian and I, and off we went.

I'm familiar with the road as it's the playground for a number of local cycling club. Though the ride on Vivian rd to Uxbridge was surprisingly hilly.
We stopped and had lunch at the local Tim Hortons. I got the time to learn more about each of the participants. First impression of the groups was great and I'm glade I joined them. We splitted in two group on the way back and Dave was kind enough to shield me from a persistent head wind. When we finally turned South on Leslie St the wind eased but we saw flurries... Guess winter wasn't done.

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="4" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 4px;"> <a href="https://instagram.com/p/1EXfUpNgx4/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_top">After the ride. Look tired, and I am 😁 152km on the GPS. From #Toronto downtown to Uxbridge and back. Took an amazing shower (everything feels amazing after a long and windy ride) and now I&#39;m passing out on the bed. #cycling #biking #randonneuring Love that? Support the Heart and Stroke Foundation http://support.heartandstroke.ca/site/TR/Events/RFH2015?px=1003910&amp;pg=personal&amp;fr_id=1070 #rideforheart</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A photo posted by Xavier Briand (@xavierbriand) on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2015-04-04T21:33:08+00:00">Apr 4, 2015 at 2:33pm PDT</time></p></div></blockquote>

Well, it was a good introduction ride and my first long ride of the year. Overall it went well. I started strong and gently suffered and the way back. Winter training was showing its fruits but I would have to keep training for the next ride dubded "Gentle Start": a 200km west off Toronto.

<iframe height='405' width='700' frameborder='0' allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no' src='https://www.strava.com/activities/279289758/embed/927e3db966c466f07488522d802c4fb597b6e502'></iframe>
